Andrei Buciulea received a B.Sc. and M.Sc. in Telecommunications Engineering from King Juan Carlos University in 2017 and 2020, respectively. In 2024, he obtained a Ph.D. in Multimedia and Communications from King Juan Carlos University and Carlos III University, earning the highest distinction (cum laude) and the international doctorate mention. During his undergraduate studies, he worked in fiber optic deployment as an assistant project manager, handling design, documentation, and technical challenges, and completed internships developing electronic prototypes with Arduino, ultrasonic sensors, and radar modules. In 2019, he joined the Signal Theory and Communications Department at King Juan Carlos University after obtaining a competitive position as a research assistant. In 2020, he obtained a predoctoral contract at King Juan Carlos University, where he conducted research and teaching activities throughout his Ph.D. He is also a member of a research group at the university and actively participates in several research projects.

His broad interests lie in the areas of signal processing on graphs, data science, graph-based machine learning, and network analytics, with applications in policy, bioengineering, and finance. Currently, his research focuses on exploring the relationship between graph theory and networks in data science. He is developing data-driven algorithms that operate on graph structures, which are critical in diverse networks such as communications, transportation, or intelligent complex systems. Over the past few years, he has published three journal articles and several conference papers focused on robust designs for graph topology inference, accounting for hidden/latent nodes and generalizing classical graphical models. He is currently working on three additional papers related to the generalization of classical approaches for topology inference. Furthermore, he has published the code for his developed algorithms, reviewed papers for IEEE SPS conferences and journals, and served as the IEEE student branch chair at King Juan Carlos University. 